= Ruby Basic

== Introduction

This is course material for a two day introductory course on Ruby programming. Included here are:

* Slides (Slides.key and Slides.pdf)
* Code examples (the lib directory, referenced from the slides)

For the exercise part of the course we will be using the excellent {Ruby Koans}[http://rubykoans.com], see exercises.rdoc.

== Contents at a Glance

The contents and structure of the course is highly influenced by the {The Ruby Programming Language}[http://www.amazon.com/Ruby-Programming-Language-David-Flanagan/dp/0596516177] book by David Flanagan.

1. Ruby Introduction
2. Structure and Execution
3. Datatypes
4. Control Structures
5. Variables and Constants
6. Boolean Expressions
7. Assignment
8. Classes and Objects
9. Modules
10. Methods and Operators
11. Blocks and Proc Objects
12. Reflection and Meta Programming
13. Standard Library
14. RubyGems and Bundler

== Prerequisites

Experience with object oriented programming.

== Credits

* {Johan Lind}[https://twitter.com/#!/jlind] - for feedback on the schedule (breaks and exercises), what the students need to bring to the course, course evaluation, and for reminding me of the "show don't tell" idea
* {Peter Lind}[http://twitter.com/#!/peter_lind] - for various great feedback. Ruby is your friend, not your parent...
* {David Backeus}[https://github.com/dbackeus] - for the "show don't tell" idea and for providing {this gist on linebreaks}[https://gist.github.com/1149392]
* {Peter Hellberg}[http://peterhellberg.info] - for catching copy mistakes
* {Peter Cooper}[http://peterc.org] - for providing me with a copy of the "Beginning Ruby" book and for pointing out the difference between a story vs. topic based approach to teaching

== License

This course material is released under a Creative Commons license, see LICENSE.html
